# Datasheet

## Motivation

- For what purpose was the dataset created? 

The dataset was created to predict machine failure and the type of machine failure. This dataset was also created to reflect predictive maintenance encountered in the industry due to real predictive maintenance datasets being difficult to obtain and difficult to publish.

- Who created the dataset (e.g., which team, research group) and on behalf of which entity (e.g., company, institution, organization)? Who funded the creation of the dataset?

It is unknown who created this dataset, but it was originally published in UC Irvine Machine Learning Repository.
 
## Composition

- What do the instances that comprise the dataset represent (e.g., documents, photos, people, countries)? 

The dataset comprises of 

1. UID: unique identifier ranging from 1 to 10000
2. Product ID: a variant-specific serial number
3. Type : consists of a letter L, M, or H for low (50% of all products), medium (30%), and high (20%) as product quality variants
4. Air temperature [K]: generated using a random walk process normalized to a standard deviation of 2 K around 300 K
5. Process temperature [K]: generated using a random walk process normalized to a standard deviation of 1 K, added to the air temperature plus 10 K.
6. Rotational speed [rpm]: calculated from power of 2860 W, overlaid with a normally distributed noise
7. Torque [Nm]: torque values are normally distributed around 40 Nm with an Ïƒ = 10 Nm and no negative values.
8. Tool wear [min]: The quality variants H/M/L add 5/3/2 minutes of tool wear to the used tool in the process.
9. Target : Indicates whether the machine has failed in this particular data point where 1 means Failure and 0 means No Failure
10. Failure Type : The type of machine failure experienced

- How many instances of each type are there? 

There are 10000 instances.

- Is there any missing data?

No.

- Does the dataset contain data that might be considered confidential (e.g., data that is protected by legal privilege or by    doctor–patient confidentiality, data that includes the content of individuals’ non-public communications)?

No.

## Collection process

- How was the data acquired? 

It was generated by the creator to reflect real predictive maintenance datasets as close as possible

- If the data is a sample of a larger subset, what was the sampling strategy? Unknown

- Over what time frame was the data collected? Unknown

## Preprocessing/cleaning/labelling

Any preproccessing, cleaning or labeling process is currently unknown.
 
## Uses

- What other tasks could the dataset be used for?

The dataset has been used to test and compare different machine learning models to find which works best.

- Is there anything about the composition of the dataset or the way it was collected and preprocessed/cleaned/labeled that might impact future uses? For example, is there anything that a dataset consumer might need to know to avoid uses that could result in unfair treatment of individuals or groups (e.g., stereotyping, quality of service issues) or other risks or harms (e.g., legal risks, financial harms)? If so, please provide a description. Is there anything a dataset consumer could do to mitigate these risks or harms? 

No.

- Are there tasks for which the dataset should not be used? If so, please provide a description.

The dataset was created primarily to predict machine failure and therefore, it should not be used for anything outside of machine failure prediction.

## Distribution

- How has the dataset already been distributed? 

The dataset is publicly available through Kaggle and UC Irvine Machine Learning Repository.

- Is it subject to any copyright or other intellectual property (IP) license, and/or under applicable terms of use (ToU)? 

The dataset is distributed under a C00: Public Domain license.

## Maintenance

- Who maintains the dataset?

Shivam Bansal

